new task for migrating from prometheus (#4421)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/getting-started/migrating-from-prometheus.md

## Before you begin

* Have an existing Prometheus configuration.
* Have a set of Prometheus applications ready to push telemetry data to
  Grafana Agent.
* Be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in Grafana Agent flow mode.

[Components]: {{< relref "../concepts/components.md" >}}
[convert]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/convert.md" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}
[Start the agent]: {{< relref "../setup/start-agent.md" >}}
[Flow Debugging]: {{< relref "../monitoring/debugging.md" >}}
[debugging]: #debugging

## Convert a Prometheus configuration

In order to fully migrate your configuration from [Prometheus] to Grafana Agent
Flow, your Prometheus configuration must be converted into a Grafana Agent flow
mode configuration. This will enable you to modify it going forward as a flow
configuration and take full advantage of the many additional features available
in Grafana Agent flow mode.

> In this task, we will use the [convert][] CLI command to output flow
> configuration from a Prometheus configuration.

1. Execute the following:

    ```bash
    grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```
  

>     1. Replace `INPUT_CONFIG_PATH` with the full path to the Prometheus configuration.
>     2. Replace `OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH` with the full path to output the flow configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Replace the following: 
      * `INPUT_CONFIG_PATH`: The full path to the Prometheus configuration.
      * `OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH`: The full path to output the flow configuration.
```

Changed this to the format that we've been using for this elsewhere in the docs

Author: heads up, the other places in Get started don't do it this way. I do prefer the way you suggested.

Reviewer: Yeah there's a lot of iteration needed to align things. That's OK... we get there in the end :-)

2. [Start the agent][] in flow mode using the new flow configuration from `OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH`:

> The following example demonstrates converting a Prometheus configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example

This example demonstrates converting a Prometheus configuration file to a Grafana Agent flow mode configuration file.

The following Prometheus configuration file provides the input for the conversion:
```

```yaml
global:
  scrape_timeout:    45s

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:12345"]

remote_write:
  - name: "grafana-cloud"
    url: "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"
    basic_auth:
      username: USERNAME
      password: PASSWORD
```

> Execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The convert command takes the YAML as input and outputs a River file.
```

```bash
grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```

> The contents of the new flow configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new flow configuration file looks like this:
```

```river
prometheus.scrape "prometheus" {
	targets = [{
		__address__ = "localhost:12345",
	}]
	forward_to     = [prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver]
	job_name       = "prometheus"
	scrape_timeout = "45s"
}

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
	endpoint {
		name = "grafana-cloud"
		url  = "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

		basic_auth {
			username = "USERNAME"
			password = "PASSWORD"
		}

		queue_config {
			capacity             = 2500
			max_shards           = 200
			max_samples_per_send = 500
		}

		metadata_config {
			max_samples_per_send = 500
		}
	}
}
```

### Debugging

> 1. If Prometheus configuration is provided that cannot be converted,
>    diagnostic information is printed to `stderr`. You can bypass
>    any non-critical issues and output the flow configuration using best
>    effort conversion by including the `--bypass-errors` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If the convert command cannot convert a Prometheus configuration,
   diagnostic information is printed to `stderr`. You can bypass
   any non-critical issues and output the flow configuration using a 
   best- effort conversion by including the `--bypass-errors` flag.
```

Author: I updated `best- effort` to `best-effort` in a follow up commit

>     > Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors.

Reviewer: What does this mean?

Author: In the case where someone bypasses errors, the behavior of the converted configuration may be different than the behavior if it was run in its original source format using the source format agent instead.

    ```bash
    grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --bypass-errors --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

> 2. You can also output a diagnostic report by including the `--report` flag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You can also output a diagnostic report by including the `--report` flag.
```

    ```bash
    grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --report=OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

>     1. Replace `OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH` with the full path to output the report to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Replace `OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH` with the output path for the report.
```

>     Using the example Prometheus configuration from above outputs a diagnostic
>     report:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Using the example Prometheus configuration from above the diagnostic report provides the following information:
```

    ```
    (Info) Converted scrape_configs job_name "prometheus" into...
      A prometheus.scrape.prometheus component
    (Info) Converted 1 remote_write[s] "grafana-cloud" into...
      A prometheus.remote_write.default component
    ```

## Run a Prometheus configuration

> If you’re not ready to switch over to flow configuration, you can also run
> the Prometheus configuration without having to save it as a flow config.
> This allows you to try flow mode without having to modify your existing
> Prometheus configuration infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re not ready to switch to a flow configuration, you can also run your
existing Prometheus configuration without saving it as a flow configuration.
This allows you to try flow mode without modifying your existing
Prometheus configuration infrastructure.
```

> > In this task, we will use the [run][] CLI command to run the Agent in flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> In this task, we will use the [run][] CLI command to run Grafana Agent in flow
```

> mode using a Prometheus configuration.

> 1. [Start the agent][] in flow mode and include the command line flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Start the agent][] in flow mode and include the command line flag
```

If it's a single step, then don't number it.

>    `--config.format=prometheus`. Your configuration file should be a valid

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   `--config.format=prometheus`. Your configuration file must be a valid
```

Should implies it doesn't have to be. Must is definite.

>    Prometheus configuration rather than a flow mode configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Prometheus configuration file rather than a flow mode configuration file.
```

### Debugging

> 1. The convert CLI command [debugging][] instructions can be followed to
>    generate a diagnostic report.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. You can follow the convert CLI command [debugging][] instructions to
   generate a diagnostic report.
```

> 2. See the Grafana Agent [Flow Debugging][] for debugging a running Grafana

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Refer to the Grafana Agent [Flow Debugging][] for more information about a running Grafana
```

   Agent in flow mode.

3. If the Prometheus configuration provided cannot be converted,
   diagnostic information is printed to `stderr`. You can bypass
   any non-critical issues and start the Agent by including the
   `--config.bypass-conversion-errors` flag in addition to

>    `--config.format=prometheus`.

Reviewer: This is a little confusing. We state that you're not converting to flow config and just using your existing Prometheus config... but this step says the Prometheus config can't be converted so info is sent to stderr.  Is it converting on the fly behind the scenes? do we need to make this clearer in the section above the debugging?

Also... do you print to stderr? Write to? send to?

Author: I updated to say `sent to` instead of `printed to`

We are converting the config to flow using the same backend functionality and then running it up as a flow config file instead of writing it to an output. What do you think we could add for clarity around this?

---

> title: Migrating from Prometheus
> weight: 320

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to migrate your configuration from Prometheus to Grafana Agent flow mode
title: Migrate from Prometheus to Grafana Agent flow mode
menuTitle: Migrate from Prometheus
weight: 320
```

    basic_auth:
      username: USERNAME
      password: PASSWORD
```

The convert command takes the YAML as input and outputs a River file.

```bash
grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```

The new flow configuration file looks like this:

```river
prometheus.scrape "prometheus" {
	targets = [{
		__address__ = "localhost:12345",
	}]
	forward_to     = [prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver]
	job_name       = "prometheus"
	scrape_timeout = "45s"
}

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
	endpoint {
		name = "grafana-cloud"
		url  = "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

		basic_auth {
			username = "USERNAME"
			password = "PASSWORD"
		}

		queue_config {
			capacity             = 2500
			max_shards           = 200
			max_samples_per_send = 500
		}

		metadata_config {
			max_samples_per_send = 500
		}
	}
}
```

### Debugging

1. If the convert command cannot convert a Prometheus configuration,
   diagnostic information is sent to `stderr`. You can bypass
   any non-critical issues and output the flow configuration using a 
   best-effort conversion by including the `--bypass-errors` flag.
   

>     > Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors.

Author: I accepted this change and tuned up the wording here and similar below for the specific use cases in this commit: https://github.com/grafana/agent/pull/4421/commits/7b36e23712df2e0620e0fdf57e98569701329bac

WDYT?

>     > Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors.

Reviewer: Yes that nails it now pretty clearly now. :+1:

    ```bash
    grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --bypass-errors --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

1. You can also output a diagnostic report by including the `--report` flag.

    ```bash
    grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --report=OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
    ```

    * Replace `OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH` with the output path for the report.

    Using the example Prometheus configuration from above the diagnostic report provides the following information:

    ```
    (Info) Converted scrape_configs job_name "prometheus" into...
      A prometheus.scrape.prometheus component
    (Info) Converted 1 remote_write[s] "grafana-cloud" into...
      A prometheus.remote_write.default component
    ```

## Run a Prometheus configuration

> If you’re not ready to switch to a flow configuration, you can also run your
> existing Prometheus configuration without saving it as a flow configuration.
> This allows you to try flow mode without modifying your existing
> Prometheus configuration infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you’re not ready to completely switch to a flow configuration, you can run Grafana Agent using your existing Prometheus configuration.
The `--config.format=prometheus` flag tells Grafana Agent to convert your Prometheus configuration to flow mode and load it directly without saving the new configuration.
This allows you to try flow mode without modifying your existing Prometheus configuration infrastructure.
```

Maybe we could expand this description a little?

> In this task, we will use the [run][] CLI command to run Grafana Agent in flow
> mode using a Prometheus configuration.

[Start the agent][] in flow mode and include the command line flag
   `--config.format=prometheus`. Your configuration file must be a valid
   Prometheus configuration file rather than a flow mode configuration file.

> 

Reviewer: I'm missing the CLI example here... but given the wide range of OS envs, I guess it's kind of hard to show how to start Agent with this flag?

Something like this....

> AGENT_MODE=flow BINARY_PATH run --config.format=prometheus CONFIG_FILE

But this is standalone... and doesn't account for Linux service, macOS, Windows etc.

Author: I had an example but then @rfratto rightly pointed out I was assuming too much about how they will be running the agent. we could leave an example and say it's just for 1 use case or keep the link to where all the use cases are documented as it is now? WDYT?

Reviewer: Yeah when I started adding the suggestion about adding the example I quickly figured out that... starting agent isn't a single command. My only question is... will the reader assume they are supposed to type `grafana-agent convert` or use systemd/brew/etc. The link does give the right info... so leave it as-is. My comment was more an observation.

### Debugging

1. You can follow the convert CLI command [debugging][] instructions to
   generate a diagnostic report.

1. Refer to the Grafana Agent [Flow Debugging][] for more information about a running Grafana
   Agent in flow mode.

> 3. If the Prometheus configuration provided cannot be converted,
>    diagnostic information is sent to `stderr`. You can bypass
>    any non-critical issues and start the Agent by including the
>    `--config.bypass-conversion-errors` flag in addition to
>    `--config.format=prometheus`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. If your Prometheus configuration cannot be converted and 
    loaded directly into Grafana Agent, diagnostic information 
    is sent to `stderr`. You can bypass any non-critical issues 
    and start the Agent by including the
   `--config.bypass-conversion-errors` flag in addition to
   `--config.format=prometheus`.
```

Maybe a slight tweak to the wording here?

>     > Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors
>     > and doing so should be avoided in Production systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    {{% admonition type="caution" %}}
    If you bypass the errors, the behavior of the converted configuration may not match the original configuration. 
    Make sure you fully test the converted configuration before using it in a production environment.
    {{% /admonition %}}
```

Is this a strong enough statement? Or should we go with `Do not use this flag in production environments.`

> ---

Reviewer 2: We should replace instances of "Grafana Agent Flow" throughout this file with "Grafana Agent flow mode" or just "flow mode"

* [prometheus.remote_write][]

[prometheus.scrape]: {{< relref "../reference/components/prometheus.scrape.md" >}}
[prometheus.remote_write]: {{< relref "../reference/components/prometheus.remote_write.md" >}}

## Before you begin

* Have an existing Prometheus configuration.
* Have a set of Prometheus applications ready to push telemetry data to
  Grafana Agent Flow.
* Be familiar with the concept of [Components][] in Grafana Agent Flow.

[Components]: {{< relref "../concepts/components.md" >}}
[convert]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/convert.md" >}}
[run]: {{< relref "../reference/cli/run.md" >}}
[Flow Debugging]: {{< relref "../monitoring/debugging.md" >}}
[debugging]: #debugging

## Convert a Prometheus configuration

In order to fully migrate your configuration from [Prometheus] to Grafana Agent
Flow, your Prometheus configuration must be converted into a Grafana Agent Flow
configuration. This will enable you to modify it going forward as a flow
configuration and take full advantage of the many additional features available
in Grafana Agent Flow.

> In this task, we will use the [convert][] CLI command to output flow
> configuration from a Prometheus configuration.

> 1. Execute the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Execute the following:
```

> 1. Execute the following

Reviewer 2: It feels like we leave the reader hanging after step 1. For example, let's say I just followed this guide. What do I do with OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH now that I've run the command?

I think there should be a step 2 which instructs the user to make sure that they update their flow mode installation so it will load OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH as the config file. Alternatively, we can instruct users to set OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH to the default config location for their relevant system.

(In either case, we should link them to the relevant documentation pages rather than going into too much detail on how to do either of these things here)

Author: good point, step added

```bash
grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```
  
> Replace `INPUT_CONFIG_PATH` with the full path to the Prometheus configuration.
>

> > Replace `OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH` with the full path to output the flow configuration.

Reviewer 2: These should be sub-steps of step 1 rather than a blockquote.

The following example demonstrates converting a Prometheus configuration:

```yaml
global:
  scrape_timeout:    45s

scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "prometheus"
    static_configs:
      - targets: ["localhost:12345"]

remote_write:
  - name: "grafana-cloud"
    url: "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"
    basic_auth:
      username: USERNAME
      password: PASSWORD
```

Execute:

```bash
grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```

The contents of the new flow configuration:

```river
prometheus.scrape "prometheus" {
	targets = [{
		__address__ = "localhost:12345",
	}]
	forward_to     = [prometheus.remote_write.default.receiver]
	job_name       = "prometheus"
	scrape_timeout = "45s"
}

prometheus.remote_write "default" {
	endpoint {
		name = "grafana-cloud"
		url  = "https://prometheus-us-central1.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

		basic_auth {
			username = "USERNAME"
			password = "PASSWORD"
		}

		queue_config {
			capacity             = 2500
			max_shards           = 200
			max_samples_per_send = 500
		}

		metadata_config {
			max_samples_per_send = 500
		}
	}
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Hm, while I like the example I'm not sure if we should include examples in the guide topic. 

WDYT @clayton-cornell

Author: I think we do examples in the other getting-started docs, but I'm good with whatever we decide is correct for task-based docs.

Reviewer: Examples are useful in making things very clear and gives readers a chance to see what happens in a particular step. I'd leave it for now... but it does need some tweaking,

> #### Debugging

Reviewer 2: You went from h2 to h4, I think this is supposed to be an h3.

If Prometheus configuration is provided that cannot be converted,
diagnostic information is printed to `stderr`. You can bypass
any non-critical issues and output the flow configuration using best

> effort conversion by including the `--bypass-errors` flag.

Reviewer 2: Should we list what kind of errors would be bypassed, so the user understands the impact?

Author: I'm not sure I want to go into too many specifics on that here other than critical vs non-critical, but I did put a note right under this. Maybe there's better words than can be used here though.

> Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors.

   
> Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors.

```bash
grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --bypass-errors --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```

You can also output a diagnostic report by including the `--report` flag.

```bash
grafana-agent convert --format=prometheus --report=OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH --output=OUTPUT_CONFIG_PATH INPUT_CONFIG_PATH

> ```

Reviewer 2: These are written in a way where it seems mutually exclusive, as if I can only pass `--bypass-errors` or `--report` for debugging, but not both.

Author: Take a look now that I put them into an ordered list. More can be done if that doesn't clear it up nicely.

> > Replace `OUTPUT_REPORT_PATH` with the full path to output the report to.

Reviewer 2: This should be a substep rather than a block quote, see other guides for how this is done.

Using the example Prometheus configuration from above outputs a diagnostic
report:

```
(Info) Converted scrape_configs job_name "prometheus" into...
  A prometheus.scrape.prometheus component
(Info) Converted 1 remote_write[s] "grafana-cloud" into...
  A prometheus.remote_write.default component
```

## Run a Prometheus configuration

If you’re not ready to switch over to flow configuration, you can also run
the Prometheus configuration without having to save it as a flow config.
This allows you to try flow mode without having to modify your existing
Prometheus configuration infrastructure.

> In this task, we will use the [run][] CLI command to output flow
> configuration from a Prometheus configuration.

1. Execute the following to start the Grafana Agent in flow mode with a
Prometheus configuration:

```bash
grafana-agent run --config.format=prometheus INPUT_CONFIG_PATH

> ```

Reviewer 2: I'm worried about this one. Rather than the guide instructing the user to manually invoke the `run` command, I think we should be telling them to modify their existing installation and change the command line arguments there. 

As it is now, this guide feels more like a one-off rather than actually setting up the agent to use a Prometheus config file.

Author: good point, specific run commands were removed throughout the whole doc now and refer to the other page and using the flags only.

> Replace `INPUT_CONFIG_PATH` with the full path to the Prometheus configuration.

> #### Debugging

Reviewer 2: It looks lke this should be an H3.

If Prometheus configuration is provided that cannot be converted,
diagnostic information is printed to `stderr`. You can bypass
any non-critical issues and start the Agent by including the
`--config.bypass-conversion-errors` flag.

> Be aware that the behavior may not match when bypassing errors
> and doing so should be avoided in Production systems.

```bash
grafana-agent run --config.format=prometheus --config.bypass-conversion-errors INPUT_CONFIG_PATH
```

If a deeper dive is needed for Prometheus configuration conversion issues,

> use the [convert][] CLI command [debugging][]

Reviewer 2: I'm a little confused by this section. What does "use the convert CLI command debugging" mean? If this is trying to link to a section, I think it can be more clear about that rather than trying to interweave the links into the sentence naturally.

Author: new organization and words have been added for this section

> For debugging a running Agent, see Grafana Agent [Flow Debugging][]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For debugging a running Agent, see Grafana Agent [Flow Debugging][].
```
